Add MVP documentation (#42147)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/unknown-version-interoperability-proxy.md

Reviewer: As a concept-level explanation, I think this would find a better home inside one of:
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/ (the URL is slightly misleading as to what's in this section)
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/

Author: Moved it here under content/en/docs/concepts/architecture

Reviewer: Please wrap lines in Markdown at around 90 characters. Localization teams will thank you (well, they'll gripe if you don't).

---
reviewers:
- jpbetz

> title: Unknown Version Interoperability Proxy Alpha

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Unknown Version Interoperability Proxy
```

content_type: concept
weight: 220
---

<!-- overview -->

> This page provides an overview of a new capability added to kube-apiservers that enables them to proxy a resource request to the correct peer kube-apiserver when there are multiple apiservers at varied versions in a cluster.
> 
> ### Unknown Version Interoperability Proxy Alphs
> 
> {{< feature-state state="alpha"  for_k8s_version="v1.28" >}}

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
{{< feature-state state="alpha"  for_k8s_version="v1.28" >}}

Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}} includes an alpha feature that lets one
{{< glossary_tooltip text="kube-apiserver" term_id="kube-apiserver" >}}
proxy a resource request to a different _peer_ API server. This is useful when there are multiple
API servers running different versions of Kubernetes in one cluster (for example, during a long-lived
rollout to a new release of Kubernetes).

This mechanism is called the _Unknown Version Interoperability Proxy_.
```

Avoid mentioning that a feature is new, even when it is. We like our docs to be as [timeless](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation) as is reasonably practical.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enabling the Unknown Version Interoperability Proxy
```

The Unknown Version Interoperability Proxy feature is controlled by a
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
and is not enabled by default. You can activate Unknown Version Interoperability Proxy by enabling
the feature gate named `UnknownVersionInteroperabilityProxy` when you start the

> {{< glossary_tooltip text="API Server" term_id="kube-apiserver" >}}:

Reviewer: If you accept my other suggestion, you don't need the tooltip here.

```shell
kube-apiserver \
--feature-gates=UnknownVersionInteroperabilityProxy=true \
# required flag for this feature
--peer-ca-file=`ca bundle to verify serving certs of kube-apiserver`
# optional flags for this feature
--peer-advertise-ip=`ip of this kube-apiserver that should be used by peers to proxy requests`
--peer-advertise-port=`port of this kube-apiserver that should be used by peers to proxy requests`
# …and other flags as usual
```

> 
> To support correct handling of resource requests that are made when a cluster has multiple kube-apiservers at varied versions, a new filter is added to the handler chain in the aggregator which proxies clients to an apiserver that is capable of handling their request.
> 
> When a kube-apiserver receives a resource request, it first checks which apiservers can serve the requested resource using StorageVersion API. If the resource is known to the local apiserver, the request is handled locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Interoperability proxying

When you enable interoperability proxying, the [aggregation layer](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/) 
loads a special filter that identifies API groups / versions / kinds that the local server doesn't recognise,
and tries to proxy those requests to a peer API server that is capable of handling the request.

When a kube-apiserver receives a resource request, it first checks which API servers can serve the
requested resource. The check happens using the internal `StorageVersion` API.
If the resource is known to the local API server, the request is handled locally. If a configured APIService
specifies proxying to an extension API server, that proxying happens following the usual
[flow](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/configure-aggregation-layer/) for
extension APIs.
```

Author: Updated with some amends/details about proxying to extension API server

> If not, the request is proxied to one of the identified kube-apiservers that are aware of the requested resource. If the identified peer apiserver fails to respond (due to reasons like network connectivity, race between the request being received and the controller registering the apiserver-resource info in ServerStorageVersion object), then a 503 is served.

Reviewer: Is this right?
```markdown
If the API server that is trying to handle the request (the _handling API server_) is aware of a
peer API server that does serve the relevant API group / version / kind, then the request is proxied
to one of the  matching peers kube-apiservers that are aware of the requested resource.
If there is no peer known for that API group / version / kind, the handling API server returns a 404
(“Not Found”) response.
If the handling API server has identified and selected a peer API server, but that peer fails to respond
(for reasones such as network connectivity, or a data race between the request being received and
a controller registering the peer's info into an internal `ServerStorageVersion` object), then the
handling API server responds with a 503 (“Service Unavailable”) error.
```

> #### Proxy transport between apiservers and authn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Proxy transport and authentication between API servers {#transport-and-authn}
```

> To authenticate the destination server's serving certs, a CA bundle passed to kube-apiserver's `--peer-ca-file` flag will be used. This is a new required flag for this feature to work since there is no default value enabled for this flag. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To authenticate the destination server's serving certs, you must configure a certificate authority
bundle by specifying the `--peer-ca-file` command line argument to the **source** API server.
```

> The source kube-apiserver will reuse the existing `--proxy-client-cert-file` and `--proxy-client-key-file` to present its identity which is verified by the peer (destination kube-apiserver) using the existing `--requestheader-client-ca-file` cert that is passed to kube-apiserver upon startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source kube-apiserver reuses the existing `--proxy-client-cert-file` and `--proxy-client-key-file` to
present its identity that will be verified by its peer (the destination kube-apiserver). The destination API
server verifies that peer connection based on the configuration you specify using the
`--requestheader-client-ca-file` command line argument.
```

> #### Identifying destination apiserver's network location

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
## Configuration for peer API server connectivity
```
?

Author: done

> To find the network location of the peer kube-apiserver, the values passed to the newly introduced `--peer-advertise-ip` and `--peer-advertise-port` flags upon kube-apiserver startup are used. If these flags are unspecified, the value passed to either `--advertise-address` or `--bind-address` flag is used. If those too, are unset, the host's default interface will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the network location of the peer kube-apiserver, you use the 
 `--peer-advertise-ip` and `--peer-advertise-port` command line arguments to kube-apiserver.
If these flags are unspecified, the kube-apiserver uses the value from either `--advertise-address` or
`--bind-address` flag is used. If those too, are unset, the host's default interface will be used.
```
Can you set these via the API server configuration file? If so, let's make that clear.

Author: Yes, added.
